>> Jason Lengstorf: Next thing that
we want to do is we've got syntax
highlighting working, but
a really advanced feature of React and
something that we can do with MDX is we
can make our syntax highlighted blocks,
show a preview and then not only show
a preview, but make that preview editable.
So if we wanted to say build a component
library and show off a button.
We wanna be able to edit that button in
place and see the result right there.
It's a really good way, if you're writing
documentation to let people try out and
experience the way that the API of
something works without having to set up
the boiler plate for it.
So this is a really nice feature and
fortunately
the team at Formidable Labs has all
ready done a bunch of work on this.
So we're gonna be using
something called react live.
So to do that we can just
jump right in to our code and
say yarn workspace gatsby-theme-docs.
We're gonna add react-live, and it comes
with all the things that we need so
we don't have to add any
additional dependencies there.
Now that we've got react live,
we can use it and we just grab it in.
Right at the bottom here,
we're going to get the live provider.
So react live uses context and
we're going to access that context
to get our stuff and we access
that through a few sub components,
the live editor, which is where
people will be able to edit the code.
A live error in case the code is not
valid and a life preview where we can see
the results and
that will be imported from react live.
And the other thing that we're
going to need is a scope.
So react live will allow us to use
different components in the scope.
And that way we don't have to import
them anytime that we use them and
that makes it really handy again if
we're showing off a component library.
People shouldn't have to know
how the library is set up we
should just be able to say hey, try adding
a button and then when they add the button
component it just works they shouldn't
have to import button or anything.
So to do that we can import a scope or
we can define just an empty object and
add things to it is needed,
because this is a theme and
because we want people to be
able to easily modify this.
What we're gonna do is take a page out
of Gatsby plugin theme new eyes book and
we're gonna create a scope
file at the source root.
And that way it'll be easy to override,
easy to add in your own components
to the scope for live editing.
So to do that, we'll just jump
right into this source folder.
And I'm gonna create
a file called scope.js and
it lives right at source root.
So source.scope.js.
And inside of it,
we're just gonna export an empty object
because by default we don't
have anything in scope.
We're not gonna have custom
components coming out of our theme.
But then over here, we're gonna import
that scope and we'll get it from scope.
And then to implement this,
what's nice is we've all ready got most
of what we need with the code string.
So we can just check whether or
not the field supports react live.
And we wanna make this optional, right?
So we don't want every
syntax highlighted block,
to become a live editable
one cuz that will break.
A lot of syntax highlighted blocks
are showing partial code, incomplete code,
pseudo code, things where the imports
aren't actually defined and
that would be chaos if we were to just
unleash that, always trying to live edit.
So we're gonna make this
configured by a attribute.
And the way that we'll do that is that
we're going to check if code props
has a react live attribute on it, and
if so, we're gonna return
a different set of code and
by default then, it'll use the prism.
So we've got three potential outcomes, if
there's no language specified we just use
a regular old pre tag and output, a pre
tag with whatever props were supplied.
If it's not marked with react live,
we're gonna output the prism react render.
If it is marked with react live,
we're gonna set up our live provider.
And inside of it,
we're gonna use the code of code string.
We're gonna set the scope and
that's our scope doc which as we
have currently defined it,
it's an empty object.
And then we're gonna set a theme and
we get to use the same theme as
the one that we're using in prism
react render which is really handy
because we don't have to change things.
We just import one theme and
it just works.
So then we don't have to
do much with these because
we're putting all of that
stuff into the provider.
That means that the code string, and the
scope, and all of that is available via
context, which means that we can
just drop in the rest of these
without having to make a bunch of edits or
pass those probs multiple times.
On the LivePreview,
I wanna add a little bit of styling.
So let's add that in.
What I wanna do is, just because the
preview by default is gonna be just kind
of smashed against
the bottom of the CodeBlock.
So I wanna put a border around it and
will just do a little bit extra and
give us some pattern.
So let's start our border and
this is gonna access the theme object.
Do one pixel solid and
we will set it up to
be theme.colors.muted.
Also we gonna give it padding of four and
in a lot of cases,
you'll have like a paragraph or
a h1 or something like that and
that'll have a lot of top margin
that will look a little goofy.
So I'm just gonna target
any first-child inside
of our preview and
just set the margin top to zero.
And finally, to make this easy to target
if, if someone wants to override it via
theme ui, we're going to set a variant,
and we'll just call it react live.
So now it's targetable in theme
ui without having to mess with
this particular component.
So that is actually all that's
required to get this running.
So to test it out, let's start the server.
So we'll do yarn workspace
theme-dev develop.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And we'll just check
at the beginning that it didn't break
anything.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay, successful.
Okay.
And it's working.
We've got our syntax highlighted blog,
we've got our plain old blog,
and now I want to add a live edited blog.
So let's jump in here and
we're gonna open up the theme
dev docs index again,
and I'm gonna drop in some JSX and
I want to market as react live.
So this is going to be our live editor.
And to make things simple,
I'm just going to export a component
that component is gonna have a divinate.
We will add an h2.
We'll say, a button and
then let's also add that button.
We'll give it an on click handler and
because we're not writing a real button,
we'll just make sure it tells us that
something happened when you click it.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay,
so we've got our button.
We have exploited some jsx from our react
live and so what should happen is when I
flip over to the page, we should be
looking at not only a syntax highlighted
block with this code in it, but also
a working preview so let's give it a shot.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Hey, look at that.
And now if I want to edit it,
>> Jason Lengstorf: We
can make those edits in real-time and
they just work.
So this is an extremely powerful way for
us to tap into
the interactivity of a page.
And because we put this in a theme,
it's going to just work when
you install this on a site.
So anyone who wants to use this theme
will be able to add that react live
attribute to their code blocks, and
get a live preview, editable live preview.
So, with that being said, I think
we're good to call our theme finished.
So let's add everything,
check where we are.
So we added the React live dependency,
set up the code component to use it set up
scope so that we can easily shadow what
components are available in React live and
then modified index.mdx to use it.
So let's commit that change.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Add
live editing support.
Okay, we'll push that up.